Now we're almost done with the grid,
there's one more thing which can come in handy though. If we go back to our main.css file, let's position
one element slightly different.
Please note that the featured quote, which is this quote here, takes two columns
as a width, so it spans two columns I should say,
now let's move the quote which we select with env of type,
so to select a second element with the quote class essentially which is the first element after the
featured quote,
so we're selecting this quote now and if I there set grid column to span two to also turn this into
a wider element and I set auto-fill here to three instead,
so to have three columns of 10rem, if we now reload, we can see something interesting.
The top right element here, the top right cell is not occupied, there is no value, no element in it.
The reason for this is this normally would be the place of this second element here,
the quote where we just increased it to span two columns.
Now the other quotes after it don't jump into that empty space because the DOM order is respected here,
unless we position an element explicitly with grid row and column,
so if we were to position that element where we just changed the width
basically, if we were to position this specifically in a certain position by assigning line names or
numbers or an area, if we were to do that, then the element after it would actually take the empty space
but if we don't do this, if we only increase this to span more than one cell, then the cell which it
would have normally gotten will stay empty.
You can overwrite this behavior by going back to grid auto flow, the property on the grid container and
by adding dense here, this is also available for a column,
so if you're setting auto flow to column, column then also exists. What dense does is it will overwrite
this default behavior of not taking the free space here
and if you therefore reload, now you see there is a quote in that space and that is not the quote which
would have normally gotten that space.
One important note about this behavior though,
you can use it to densely organize your grid and to ensure that there are no empty spaces
but please be aware that this may not be optimal.
You can run into accessibility errors here because the screen readers will read your page from top to
bottom, so the DOM order is what they respect and they will read items as they appear in the DOM.
If you change the visuals to move them around, the thing people with screen readers will get out of their
page
is different to what other people can get out of your page.
So this is something to keep in mind,
changing the order visually only is not always recommended,
it is something you should do with great care.
It is possible though if your requirement is to not leave any empty spaces and if you want to ensure
that therefore your grid is as dense as possible.